---
title: Implementing a Job Queueing System With Gearman and Mongo
author: jgoulah
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=530
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
A job queue, also known as a message queue provides an asynchronous communications protocol, meaning that the sender and receiver of the message do not need to interact with the message queue at the same time. This makes them great for speeding up a web request by offloading longer running tasks to the queue. Email, web requests that don&#8217;t require a response, image resizing, or any other asynchronous style task are good candidates for moving to a job queue.

A job queue consists of these components

  * Client – Create jobs to be run and then send them to a job server
  * Worker – Register with a job server and grab jobs as they come in
  * Job Server – Coordinate the assignment of jobs from clients to workers, handle restarting of jobs if workers go away

We can use Gearman to manage our job queue. Gearman provides a generic application framework to farm out work to other machines. It can be used both synchronously or asynchronously but in our case it would be entirely asynchronous as we would expect our jobs to execute in the background. Clients will initiate the job with some data, and workers will receive and process that data. One of the greatest aspects of gearman is that you can write the client or workers in any language, so its easy to have for example a php client invoke a worker thats written in perl. 

We will also log the success or failure of the job for later inspection. As we saw in the [last article][1] mongodb is a great way to handle log data so we&#8217;ll implement a role to do that. 

## Getting the Components Installed

### Gearman Job Server

If you are using Ubuntu this is pretty simple to install with apt. If you don&#8217;t have it available in package management its also fairly easy to compile and install. You can find the source code [here][2].

Just add these repositories to _/etc/apt/sources.list_

{{< highlight bash >}}deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/drizzle-developers/ppa/ubuntu intrepid main
deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/drizzle-developers/ppa/ubuntu intrepid main{{< /highlight >}}

Add the keys and install

{{< highlight bash >}}$ sudo apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys 06899068
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install gearman gearman-job-server gearman-tools libgearman3 libgearman-dev libgearman-server-dev  libdrizzle-dev{{< /highlight >}}

Next its a good idea to setup gearman to use a persistent store. If you have MySQL setup you can use that. This step could be skipped but if you have a server crash you gearman would not be able to pick up the queue where it left off as the queue would be lost. Also if you are running MySQL using &#8211;old-passwords this won&#8217;t work with libdrizzle, but it doesn&#8217;t hurt to remove that option from my.cnf as your db&#8217;s defined with old passwords will still work. 

Now create the database and user in mysql

{{< highlight bash >}}mysql&gt; create database gearman;
mysql&gt; grant all on gearman.* to gearman@'localhost' identified by 'your_pw';{{< /highlight >}}

We want to edit /etc/default/gearman-job-server and add this configuration:

{{< highlight bash >}}PARAMS="-q libdrizzle --libdrizzle-host=127.0.0.1 --libdrizzle-user=gearman \
        --libdrizzle-password=your_pw --libdrizzle-db=gearman \
        --libdrizzle-table=gearman_queue --libdrizzle-mysql"
{{< /highlight >}}

And restart the gearman daemon

{{< highlight bash >}}sudo /etc/init.d/gearman-job-server start{{< /highlight >}}

### MongoDB

We went over how to install MongoDB in the last article [here][3] so if you haven&#8217;t done that yet get that installed.

### Gearman and Mongo API

Gearman is implemented in a bunch of languages so you can pick your favorite API implementation [here][4]. As of this writing there appear to be about three Gearman implementations in Perl, and [Gearman::XS][5] looks to have a lot of functionality.  [AnyEvent::Gearman][6] also looks good but I didn&#8217;t want to depend on AnyEvent for this example. I should note however I had a bit of trouble with the tests while installing but the examples seem to work fine. We&#8217;ll also want to install [MongoDB][7] and of course [Moose][8]. 

## Implementing the Framework

We want our framework to allow people to easily drop in new workers and also kick those off from client code.

 [1]: http://blog.johngoulah.com/2010/01/using-mongo-and-map-reduce-on-apache-access-logs/
 [2]: http://launchpad.net/gearmand/trunk/0.11/+download/gearmand-0.11.tar.gz
 [3]: http://blog.johngoulah.com/2010/01/using-mongo-and-map-reduce-on-apache-access-logs/#installmongo
 [4]: http://gearman.org/index.php?id=download#client_worker_apis
 [5]: http://search.cpan.org/~dschoen/Gearman-XS-0.7/
 [6]: http://search.cpan.org/~typester/AnyEvent-Gearman-0.06/
 [7]: http://search.cpan.org/~kristina/MongoDB-0.28/
 [8]: http://search.cpan.org/~drolsky/Moose-0.94
